docs/operation.rst, before:

How sorl-thumbnail operates
===========================

When you use the ``thumbnail`` template tag sorl-thumbnail looks up the
thumbnail in a :ref:`kvstore-requirements`. The key for a thumbnail is
generated from its filename and storage. The thumbnail filename in turn is
generated from the source and requested thumbnail size and options.  If the key
for the thumbnail is found in the |kvstore|, the serialized thumbnail
information is fetched from it and returned. If the thumbnail key is not found
there sorl-thumbnail continues to generate the thumbnail and stores necesssary
information in the |kvstore|.  It is worth noting that sorl-thumbnail does not
check if source or thumbnail exists if the thumbnail key is found in the
|kvstore|.

.. note:: This means that if you change or delete a source file or delete the
    thumbnail, sorl-thumbnail will still fetch from the |kvstore|.
    Therefore it is important that if you delete or change a source or
    thumbnail file notify the |kvstore|.

If you change or delete a source or a thumbnail for some reason, you can use
the ``KVStoreBase`` sublass's ``delete`` method::

    from sorl.thumbnail.images import ImageFile
    from sorl.thumbnail import default

    #
    # Before deleting my_file you need to delete it from the Key Value Store
    #
    my_image_file = ImageFile(my_file)
    default.kvstore.delete(my_image_file)
    #
    # Now you are ready to delete my_file
    #

Alternatively if you have **deleted** a file you can use the management command
:ref:`thumbnail-cleanup`.  Deleting an image using the
``sorl.thumbnail.ImageField`` will notify the |kvstore| to delete references to
it and delete all of its thumbnail references and files, exactly like the above
code example.

**Why you ask?** Why go through all the trouble with a |kvstore| and risk
stale cache? Why not use a database to cache if you are going to do that?

The reason is speed and especially with storages other than local file storage.
Checking if a file exists before serving it will cost too much. Speed is also
the reason for not choosing to use a standard database for this kind of
persistent caching. However sorl-thumbnail does ship with a *cached* database
|kvstore|.

.. note:: We have to assume the thumbnail exists if the thumbnail key exists in
    the |kvstore|

**There are bonuses**. We can store meta data in the |kvstore| that would be
too costly to retreive even for local file storage. Today this meta data
consists only of the image size but this could be expanded to for example EXIF
data. The other bonus is that we can keep track of what thumbnails has been
generated from a particular source and deleting them too when the source is
deleted.

`Schematic view of how things are done
<https://docs.google.com/drawings/edit?id=1wlE4LkQpzXd2a2Nxfjt6_j5NG7889dzMyf0V-xPAJSE&hl=en>`_

.. |kvstore| replace:: Key Value Store

Commit message:

race conditions on IO could lead to stale cache

docs/operation.rst, after:

How sorl-thumbnail operates
===========================

When you use the ``thumbnail`` template tag sorl-thumbnail looks up the
thumbnail in a :ref:`kvstore-requirements`. The key for a thumbnail is
generated from its filename and storage. The thumbnail filename in turn is
generated from the source and requested thumbnail size and options.  If the key
for the thumbnail is found in the |kvstore|, the serialized thumbnail
information is fetched from it and returned. If the thumbnail key is not found
there sorl-thumbnail continues to generate the thumbnail and stores necesssary
information in the |kvstore|.  It is worth noting that sorl-thumbnail does not
check if source or thumbnail exists if the thumbnail key is found in the
|kvstore|.

.. note:: This means that if you change or delete a source file or delete the
    thumbnail, sorl-thumbnail will still fetch from the |kvstore|.
    Therefore it is important that if you delete or change a source or
    thumbnail file notify the |kvstore|.

If you change or delete a source or a thumbnail for some reason, you can use
the ``KVStoreBase`` sublass's ``delete`` method::

    from sorl.thumbnail.images import ImageFile
    from sorl.thumbnail import default
    
    # Instantiate the ImageFile before deletion
    image_file = ImageFile(my_file)

    # Delete the file before we remove references in kvstore to avoid kvstore
    # to update and have stale cache
    delete_my_file_function(my_file)

    # Remove references and thumbnails from kvstore
    default.kvstore.delete(image_file)

Alternatively if you have **deleted** a file you can use the management command
:ref:`thumbnail-cleanup`.  Deleting an image using the
``sorl.thumbnail.ImageField`` will notify the |kvstore| to delete references to
it and delete all of its thumbnail references and files, exactly like the above
code example.

**Why you ask?** Why go through all the trouble with a |kvstore| and risk
stale cache? Why not use a database to cache if you are going to do that?

The reason is speed and especially with storages other than local file storage.
Checking if a file exists before serving it will cost too much. Speed is also
the reason for not choosing to use a standard database for this kind of
persistent caching. However sorl-thumbnail does ship with a *cached* database
|kvstore|.

.. note:: We have to assume the thumbnail exists if the thumbnail key exists in
    the |kvstore|

**There are bonuses**. We can store meta data in the |kvstore| that would be
too costly to retreive even for local file storage. Today this meta data
consists only of the image size but this could be expanded to for example EXIF
data. The other bonus is that we can keep track of what thumbnails has been
generated from a particular source and deleting them too when the source is
deleted.

`Schematic view of how things are done
<https://docs.google.com/drawings/edit?id=1wlE4LkQpzXd2a2Nxfjt6_j5NG7889dzMyf0V-xPAJSE&hl=en>`_

.. |kvstore| replace:: Key Value Store
