docs/requirements.rst, before:

************
Requirements
************

Base requirements
=================
- `Python`_ 2.5+
- `Django`_
- :ref:`kvstore-requirements`
- :ref:`image-library`
  
.. _kvstore-requirements:

Key Value Store
===============
sorl-thumbnail needs a Key Value Store for its operation. You can choose
between a **cached database** which requires no special installation to your
normal Django setup **or** you can setup **redis** which requires a little bit
more work.

Cached DB
---------
All you need to use the cached database key value store is a database and
preferably `cache <http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/cache/>`_ setup
properly.

Redis
-----
is faster and better suited for the job. To use the `redis`_ key value store
you first need to install the `redis server
<http://code.google.com/p/redis/>`_. After that install the `redis client
<https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py/>`_::

    pip install redis


.. _image-library:

Image Library
=============
You need to have an image library installed. sorl-thumbnail ships with support
for `Python Imaging Library`_ and `pgmagick`_. `pgmagick`_ are python bindings
for GraphicsMagick (Magick++) and is the preferred option.

Python Imaging Library installation
-----------------------------------
Prerequisites:

- libjpeg
- zlib

Ubuntu 10.04 package installation::

    sudo aptitude install libjpeg62 libjpeg62-dev zlib1g-dev

Installing `Python Imaging Library`_ using pip::

    pip install PIL

Watch the output for messages on what support got compiled in, you at least
want to see the following::

    --- JPEG support available
    --- ZLIB (PNG/ZIP) support available

pgmagick installation
---------------------
Prerequisites:

- GraphicsMagick
- Boost.Python

Ubuntu 10.04 package installation::

    sudo apt-get install libgraphicsmagick++-dev
    sudo apt-get install libboost-python1.40-dev

Fedora installation::

    yum install GraphicsMagick-c++-devel
    yum install boost-devel

Installing `pgmagick`_ using pip::

    pip install pgmagick


.. _Python Imaging Library: http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/
.. _redis: http://code.google.com/p/redis/
.. _redis-py: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py/
.. _Django: http://www.djangoproject.com/
.. _Python: http://www.python.org/
.. _pgmagick: http://bitbucket.org/hhatto/pgmagick/src

Commit message:

convert rules in the end

docs/requirements.rst, after:

************
Requirements
************

Base requirements
=================
- `Python`_ 2.5+
- `Django`_
- :ref:`kvstore-requirements`
- :ref:`image-library`
  
.. _kvstore-requirements:

Key Value Store
===============
sorl-thumbnail needs a Key Value Store for its operation. You can choose
between a **cached database** which requires no special installation to your
normal Django setup **or** you can setup **redis** which requires a little bit
more work.

Cached DB
---------
All you need to use the cached database key value store is a database and `cache
<http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/cache/>`_ setup properly using
memcached. Using anything else than memcached is not recomended.

Redis
-----
Redis is a fast key value store also suited for the job. To use the `redis`_ key
value store you first need to install the `redis server
<http://code.google.com/p/redis/>`_.  After that install the `redis client
<https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py/>`_::

    pip install redis


.. _image-library:

Image Library
=============
You need to have an image library installed. sorl-thumbnail ships with support
for `Python Imaging Library`_, `ImageMagick`_ (or `GraphicsMagick`) commandline
tools and `pgmagick`_. `pgmagick`_ are python bindings for GraphicsMagick
(Magick++). The preferred option is to use `ImageMagick`_ which ny default calls
``convert`` and ``identify`` commands from `ImageMagick`_. You can change the
paths to these tools by setting ``THUMBNAIL_CONVERT`` and ``THUMBNAIL_IDENTIFY``
respectively. Note that you need to change these to use `GraphicsMagick` to
``path/to/gm convert`` and ``path/to/gm identify``.

ImageMagick installation
------------------------
Ubuntu 10.04 package installation::

    sudo apt-get install imagemagick

Or if you prefer `GraphicsMagick`_::

    sudo apt-get install graphicsmagick


Python Imaging Library installation
-----------------------------------
Prerequisites:

- libjpeg
- zlib

Ubuntu 10.04 package installation::

    sudo apt-get install libjpeg62 libjpeg62-dev zlib1g-dev

Installing `Python Imaging Library`_ using pip::

    pip install PIL

Watch the output for messages on what support got compiled in, you at least
want to see the following::

    --- JPEG support available
    --- ZLIB (PNG/ZIP) support available

pgmagick installation
---------------------
Prerequisites:

- GraphicsMagick
- Boost.Python

Ubuntu 10.04 package installation::

    sudo apt-get install libgraphicsmagick++-dev
    sudo apt-get install libboost-python1.40-dev

Fedora installation::

    yum install GraphicsMagick-c++-devel
    yum install boost-devel

Installing `pgmagick`_ using pip::

    pip install pgmagick


.. _Python Imaging Library: http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/
.. _ImageMagick: http://imagemagick.com/
.. _GraphicsMagick: http://www.graphicsmagick.org/
.. _redis: http://code.google.com/p/redis/
.. _redis-py: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py/
.. _Django: http://www.djangoproject.com/
.. _Python: http://www.python.org/
.. _pgmagick: http://bitbucket.org/hhatto/pgmagick/src
